<h2>Preventative Inhibitory Negative Causality (PINC)</h2>
There is now considerable evidence using the launching-event paradigm that generative causal perception emerges in infants roughly by 6 months of age. For example, Leslie and Keeble (1987) showed that 6.5-month-olds dishabituated to the reversal of a direct-launching event--which used simple 2D geometric shapes--following habituation to that same event, whereas infants who were habituated to a non-causal event did not dishabituate to its reversal. This work was subsequently extended by Oakes and Cohen (1990) who showed that the ability to perceive causality when realistic 3D rather than computer-animated 2D are used emerges by around 10 months of age. 
</br>
Although this work is generally not described in these terms, each of these studies are related in that the aim in each study was to examine generative causal perception in infants; that is, infants' ability to attribute causality to objects that produce, rather than that prevent, effects in other objects. However, it is as yet unknown when, how, and whether infants can attribute causality to causes that prevent effects, and it is also unclear what the mechanism or set of mechanisms may be that underpin this knowledge. Finally, it remains unknown whether infants' real-worl experience with generative and preventative causality constrains their ability to learn about prevenative causality in a laboratory setting, especially when the frequency with which infants experience prevenative and generative causality in the laboratory setting is inconsistent with that experienced in the real-world.  
</br>
The goal of this model was to explore these issues in detail. In particular, the aim of this model--as well as extensions of it--is to explore how preventative causal perception might emerge in a connectionist neural network system. The model consisted of two, 10-unit input groups, a single hidden layer, and a single, 2-unit output group. The model was trained on the same task that infants will be trained on in Experiments 0A and 0B.

